# unwin_PhD_thesis
Code and data files, and images used in the PhD thesis of Holly Unwin (2023)

## Structure
Different folder names in this repository refer to the Appendices in the main thesis. 

B1_Particle_sorter contains the code and datafiles required to process the particle-size distributions seen in the main thesis. This contains interative versions of the Jupyter Notebooks found in Appendices B.1-B.3.

B4_Correcting_permeability contains the raw permeability data and the Python code to process this (as seen in Appendix B.4).

B5_Particle_circularity contains all of the raw particle circularity data and the interactive version of the Jupyter Notebook seen in Appendix B.5.

## B1_Particle_sorter
This folder contains the raw data and code to process the particle-size distributions. For details on running the code for image nests see Fixed_bins_controller.ipynb.

### Contents of this folder:
Folders ending "_data" each contain the raw data (.csv files) from ImageJ to process the particle-size distribution for an individual image nest. Each folder contains .csv files of the raw data as well as a .txt file (required as an input by the codes below) containing the names of the different data files to process and their scale. For comparison with Chapter 5: DM9B = TF1, DM11B = TF2, DM13B = TF3.

Particle_sorter_worked_example.ipynb - the interactive Jupyter Notebook seen in Appendix B.1. This notebook processes the raw data from ImageJ for one image. This code is identical to that in Particle_sorter_perarea_fixedbins.py.

Particle_sorter_perarea_fixedbins.py - Processes the raw data from ImageJ for one image. This is identical to the code in Particle_sorter_worked_example.ipynb.

Fixed_bins_controller.ipynb - Processes the raw image data for each image in an image nest and combines the particle-size distributions for an image nest using Particle_sorter_perarea_fixedbins.py. Appendix B.2 in thesis.

Thin_section_scaling.ipynb - Combines the particle-size distributions from different image nests (generated by Fixed_bins_controller.ipynb) to account for different subunits within a thin section. Requires an input .csv file (see "_section_areas.csv" files) containing the names of the files to combine and the area of the thin section made from each subunit. Appendix B.3 in thesis.

Files ending "_section_areas.csv" - Contain the names of each particle-size distribution (from Fixed_bins_controller.ipynb) to be scaled and combined using Thin_section_scaling.ipynb, as well as the area of each subunit within the thin section.

## B4_Correcting_permeability
This folder contains the raw measurements used to calculate the permeability of the different samples and the code used to do so. See also Appendix A.7.

### Contents of this folder:
Correcting_permeability_data.ipynb - This Jupyter notebook shows the method for processing the raw data for calculating permeability and how to apply corrections to the calculated perrmeability where necessary. Appendix B.4 in thesis.

TF1_1.csv, TF1_2.csv, TF2_1.csv - These .csv files contain the raw flow data used to calculate the raw permeabilty of these samples. Used by Correcting_permeability_data.ipynb.

example_characteristics.csv - Contains the other data required for peremability calculations e.g. sample dimensions. Used by Correcting_permeability_data.ipynb.

## B5_Particle_circularity
This folder contains the size and shape data for every particle measured using ImageJ and code to calculate average circularity and the error associated with the assumption of spherical particles for the stereological conversion and sintering calculation.

### Contents of this folder:
All_particle_data.csv - The size and shape data of all measured particles. Used by Circularity_and_stereological_conversion_ipynb.

Circularity_and_stereological_conversion_ipynb - Calculates the average circularity and the error associated with assuming spherical particles. Uses All_particle_data.csv. Appendix B.5 in thesis.

## Husafell_BSE_images
All BSE images of the Husafell tuffisite and host rocks collected for this thesis. See Chapters 3 and 5 for sample locations and context.

### Contents of this folder
Folder B - All BSE images of the black ignimbrite host rock at Deildargil, Husafell.

Folder UR - All BSE images of the red ignimbrite host rock at Deildargil, Husafell.

Folders beginning "DM_" - All BSE images of the tuffisite samples used in Chapter 5. The numbers of the images used in the particle-size distributions are given in the folder names within B1_Particle_sorter. For comparison with Chapter 5: DM9B = TF1, DM11B = TF2, DM13B = TF3.
